                          Ruby interface to remctl

OVERVIEW

  The Ruby interface to remctl provides Ruby bindings to the libremctl
  client library plus a high-level interface that translates the libremctl
  API into something closer to idiomatic Ruby.

  This module provides two interfaces: a simple interface in Ruby that
  performs a single call to a remctl server and returns the result as an
  object; and a full interface in Ruby which provides more control over
  the connection, returns individual output tokens, and allows multiple
  commands to be sent via the same connection.

REQUIREMENTS

  The module has been tested with Ruby 1.8 and may not work with older
  (or newer) versions of Ruby.

SIMPLIFIED INTERFACE

  Remctl.remctl(host, *args)
      Runs a command on the remote system and returns an object containing
      the results.

      Arguments:
      * host: string, the host to connect to
      * args: array containing strings making up the command

      In order to change the port or principal used, assign to
      Remctl.default_port and Remctl.default_principal.  These default to
      0 and nil, meaning to respect the library defaults: port 4373 then
      fall back to attempting the legacy 4444 port, and a principal of
      host/<host>, with the realm determined by the domain-realm mapping.

      args must be an array of things which respond to #to_s.

      Returns an object of type Remctl::Result with the following
      attributes:
      * stdout: string, the standard output from the command
      * stderr: string, the standard error from the command
      * status: integer, the exit status of the command

      Exceptions:
      * ArgError, TypeError: an invalid argument was supplied
      * NoMemError: memory allocation failed while making the call
      * Remctl::Error: an error occurred in the remctl communication

      The message attribute (or string value) of the Remctl::Error
      exception contains the string returned by the remctl library.  This
      may be an internal error (such as a network error) or an error
      returned by the remote server (such as an unknown command error).

  Here is an example using the simplified interface:

      require 'remctl'
      command = %w{testing 1 2 3}
      result = Remctl.remctl("foo.example.com", *command)
      if result.stdout != "":
          puts "stdout: #{result.stdout}"
      if result.stderr != "":
          puts "stderr: #{result.stderr}"
      puts "exit status: #{result.status}"

FULL INTERFACE

  The full remctl interface requires the user to do more bookkeeping, but
  provides more flexibility and visibility into what is happening at a
  protocol level.  It allows issuing multiple commands on the same
  persistent connection (provided that the remote server supports protocol
  version two; if it doesn't, the library will transparently fall back to
  opening a connection for each command).

  To use the full interface, first create a connection object with
  Remctl.new and then call the #command method to issue a command.  Read
  output tokens with #output until a status token has been received.  Then
  the command is complete and another command can be issued.

  Remctl.new(host, port, principal)
      The constructor.  Create a new Remctl object.  The host argument is
      required.  port and principal default to Remctl.default_port and
      Remctl.default_principal respectively.

      Arguments:
      * host (required): string, the host to connect to
      * port (optional): unsigned short, the port to connect to
      * principal (optional): string, authentication identity of host

      This method immediately connects to the server.  It raises ArgError
      in the event that the port is out of range and Remctl::Error in case
      of a protocol error.

      If port is not given, the library default is used (try 4373 first
      and fall back to attempting the legacy 4444 port).  If principal is
      not given, the library default (host/<host> with the realm
      determined by the domain-realm mapping) is used.

      Exceptions:
      * ArgError, TypeError: an invalid argument was supplied
      * NoMemError: memory allocation failed while allocating the object
      * Remctl::Error: a network or authentication error occurred

      The message attribute (or string value) of the Remctl::Error
      exception contains the string returned by the remctl library
      remctl_error() function.

  All further methods below must be called on a Remctl object as returned
  or yielded by the constructor.

  r.command(*args)
      Send a command to the remote host.  There is no return value; an
      exception is thrown on any error.

      The Remctl object must already be connected.  The command may, under
      the remctl protocol, contain any character, but be aware that most
      remctl servers will reject commands or arguments containing ASCII 0
      (NUL) unless that argument is configured on the server to be passed
      via standard input.

      Arguments:
      * args (required): An array of arguments.  Each must respond to
        #to_s.

      Exceptions:
      * TypeError: an invalid argument was supplied
      * Remctl::Error: a network or authentication error occurred
      * Remctl::NotOpen: no connection currently open

      The message attribute (or string value) of the Remctl::Error
      exception contains the string returned by the remctl library.

  r.output()
      Reads an output token from the server and returns it as an array.  A
      command will result in either one error token or zero or more output
      tokens followed by a status token.  The output is complete as soon
      as any token other than an output token has been received, but the
      module will keep returning done tokens to the caller for as long as
      #output is called without another call to #command.

      The members of the returned array are, in order:
      * type: symbol, :output, :status, :error, or :done
      * output: string, the returned output or error
      * stream: integer, 1 for stdout or 2 for stderr for an output token
      * status: integer, exit status of command for a status token
      * error: integer, remctl protocol error for an error token

      The array always has 5 elements.  The other members of the array may
      be nil depending on the type of token.  Output tokens will have
      output and stream information, error tokens will have output and
      error information, and status tokens will have status information.
      Done tokens will return nil for all other elements.

      For error tokens, error holds the numeric error code (see the remctl
      protocol specification), which is the recommended value for programs
      to check when looking for specific errors.  output will contain an
      English text translation of the error code and the exact text may
      change.

      Exceptions:
      * Remctl::NotOpen: no connection currently open

  r.close()
      Close a connection.  After calling this method, #reopen must
      be called for this object before sending any further commands.  The
      connection will also be automatically closed when the object is
      destroyed, so calling this method is often not necessary.

  r.reopen()
      Close the connection, reopen it, and authenticate.  Returns self.
      Raises Remctl::Error in the event that remctl_open() fails.

      Exceptions:
      * NoMemError: memory allocation failed while making the call
      * Remctl::Error: a network or authentication error occurred

HISTORY

  The original implementation was written by Anthony Martinez
  <twopir@nmt.edu> in 2010.  As of remctl 2.16 it is part of the stock
  remctl distribution.
