                              remctl Thanks

To Anton Ushakov for the original design document, much of the version one
protocol design, and the initial implementation.

To Roland Schemers for extensive review of the initial code and protocol
and help with the original Java client.

To Romain LENGLET for the idea and code for examples/rsh-wrapper.

To Thomas Kula for testing of remctl 2.0 and later versions on NetBSD and
Heimdal, for the Python bindings, and for the REMCTL_COMMAND environment
variable implementation.

To Ralf Wildenhues for help in getting make check to work with builddir !=
srcdir builds.

To Darren Patterson and Digant Kasundra for contributions to the RPM spec
file and testing on Red Hat.

To Jonathan Kollasch for the initial IPv6 patch and for identifying all of
the places the code was making IPv4 assuptions.

To Andrew Mortensen for the initial -F and -k flag support for remctld,
for the initial remctl PECL extension for PHP, for general code formatting
comments and a reminder to free malloc'd memory in the Python bindings,
and for implementing the user option in the remctld configuration file.

To Alf Wachsmann for catching inaccuracies in the Perl documentation.

To Jeffrey Hutzelman and Chaskiel Grundman for testing with Heimdal 0.6
and teaching me a great deal about GSS-API flags and the security issues
that surround them.

To Marcus Watts for testing and various bug fixes, lots of improvements to
the standalone server mode, and fixes for the Perl API.  Marcus also
rewrote the Java client, adding support for protocol version two and a
server implementation.

To Sandor Sklar for testing multiple patches for the remctl build on AIX
5.2 and providing an account so that I could investigate test suite
issues.

To Matthew Loar for the Windows port of the remctl client.

To Jeffrey Hutzelman for adding the framework for ACL method support and
implementing the file, princ, deny, and gput schemes, as well as lots of
testing and portability bug reports and patches.

To Timothy G. Abbott for suggesting additional restrictions on the names
of files read when processing an include of a directory.

To Jeffrey Altman for additional porting to Windows and fixes to the
Windows build infrastructure.

To Anthony M. Martinez for the initial Ruby bindings.

To Peter Eriksson for the example SMF manifest for the remctld daemon and
help with building against Solaris 10's native GSS-API libraries.

To Anton Lundin for the initial implementation that led to regex and PCRE
ACL support in remctld.

To Tollef Fog Heen for assistance in writing the pkg-config configuration
file for libremctl.

To Jon Robertson for the initial implementation of the summary and help
configuration options.

To Remi Ferrand for the initial implementation of the localgroup ACL type
and for extending the summary configuration option to work with commands
with subcommands other than ALL.

To Hugh Cole-Baker for fixing the localgroup ACL scheme on systems with
large numbers of supplemental groups.

To Santosh Ananthakrishnan for finding a memory management security bug in
the server handling of the sudo configuration option.
