                   remctl Server Implementation Details

Overview

    This directory contains the remctld server code.  This file describes
    the layout and internals of the code.  The target audience is
    programmers who are trying to understand or modify the server
    internals.  For user documentation, see the remctld manual page.  For
    information about the wire protocol, see the separate protocol
    specification.

    The source code is divided into the following source files:

    remctld.c

        The file does argument parsing, setup and initialization, and
        handles the network setup and the main event loop for the
        stand-alone server, which accepts connections and forks a child
        process for each connection.

        Once a client connection is accepted, either via stand-alone mode
        or using a connection passed in from inetd, control is passed to
        server_new_client to handle authentication and connection setup,
        and then server_v1_handle_messages or server_v2_handle_messages
        based on the negotiated protocol.

    generic.c
    server-v1.c
    server-v2.c

        The wire protocol implementation (although the exact details of
        the token format are handled in util/gss-tokens.*).  generic.c
        handles the points of commonality between the version 1 protocol
        and the version 2 (or later) protocol.  The server-v?.c files
        contain the code specific to each protocol version.  (The
        MESSAGE_NOOP command introduced in version 3 is handled by
        server-v2.c since it poses no special additional requirements.)

        The server_v?_handle_messages functions provided by these files
        contain the event loops to wait for the client to send a command.

        Once a MESSAGE_COMMAND has been received from the client and is
        complete, both the server-v1.c and server-v2.c implementations
        hand off to server_run_command in commands.c.

    commands.c

        Handles all the general processing involved in a single client
        command short of running a process or dispatching the command to
        another process.  This includes checking the command against the
        available configured commands, checking the authenticated user
        against ACLs (although this is delegated to funtions in config.c),
        and handling special commands like help and summary.

    process.c

        Handles running an external command and returning its results over
        protocol.  This file contains the most complex event loop, which
        processes output from the command, input to the command, and
        sending the results over the network to the client.

    config.c

        Configuration file parsing and ACL verification.  The output from
        configuration file parsing is a config struct, which contains the
        information required to match commands to programs, options, and
        ACLs.  This is done during startup and on SIGHUP by the
        stand-alone server event loop.  Also provided by this file is the
        server_config_acl_permit call, which determines whether a user is
        allowed to run a particular command.

    logging.c

        Utility functions for logging commands and reporting errors.

    internal.h

        Prototypes for the internal functions that are called outside
        their own source files, and the definitions of internal structures
        used throughout the server code.

    The rest of this file describes the most interesting or complex
    structures in the server code, including inobvious design decisions.
    Design decisions that have been made but not yet implemented are
    marked with (future).

Event Loops

    There are three event loops in the server, each with a separate set of
    significant events.

    The first of these is specific to the stand-alone server and accepts
    new client connections, spawning a child process for each connection.
    This event loop has the following events:

    * New incoming client connection
    * SIGHUP triggering a refresh of the configuration
    * SIGTERM and SIGINT for a clean exit
    * SIGCHLD triggering logging of the child status

    It runs to completion of the server process (via SIGTERM or SIGINT).

    Once the connection is accepted (possibly immediately if running in
    the default inetd mode), control passes to the client message event
    loop.  This is quite simple, with the following events:

    * Message from client
    * Inactivity timeout
    * (future) SIGHUP triggering a refresh of the configuration
    * (future) SIGUSR1 triggering immediate exit

    This loop continues until the client sends MESSAGE_QUIT, sends
    MESSAGE_COMMAND without keep-alive set, or the server reaches an
    inactivity timeout.  On receipt of a complete MESSAGE_COMMAND (after
    merging any continuations) that is valid and results in a command to
    run, control is handed over to the command event loop.  This is the
    most complex, with the following events:

    * Output from command (on stdout or stderr)
    * Command ready to take more input on stdin
    * SIGCHLD indicating that the command has completed
    * (future) SIGHUP triggering a refresh of the configuration
    * (future) SIGUSR1 setting a flag to exit after command completion

    The standard input event is only registered if one of the command
    arguments is specified to be passed on standard input.

    In the current implementation, output from the command is sent back to
    the client over protocol with blocking calls outside of the event
    loop.  It's safe to block on sending to the client, since that will
    force the process to block if the remctld process can't send more
    information to the network.

    One detail here deserves special explanation.  A client command is
    considered finished once the command process exits, even if this does
    not close the output file descriptors.  This allows the client to
    spawn daemons or background processes that don't close all their file
    descriptors without causing the remctl call to hang.  However, this
    makes client output processing somewhat tricky, since we don't want to
    discard all further client output when the command exits.  Otherwise,
    depending on server timing, we could prematurely truncate the client
    output.

    The approach taken is to reduce the select timeout to zero and poll
    for output once the child has exited.  As long as more output is
    available, we keep processing it, but as soon as no output is
    immediately available, we consider the command finished and close our
    end of the file descriptors.

License

    Copyright 2014
        The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University

    Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
    are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
    notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
    without any warranty.
