The remctld server and the standard client are written in C and require a
C compiler and GSS-API libraries to build.  Both will build against either
MIT Kerberos or Heimdal of any reasonable vintage.  remctl will also build
against the Kerberos GSS-API implementation shipped with AIX 5.2 (and
possibly later versions) and the Solaris 10 generic GSS-API library (and
possibly later versions).  The `remctl_set_ccache` implementation is
improved by building with Kerberos libraries and a GSS-API library that
supports `gss_krb5_import_cred`.

The remctld server requires libevent 1.4.x or later.  It's only been
tested with libevent 1.4.13-stable and later, but should work with 1.4.4
or later.  It is now only tested with libevent 2.x, so moving to a later
version of libevent if possible is recommended.

The remctl server will support regex ACLs if the system supports the POSIX
regex API.  The remctl server also optionally supports PCRE regular
expressions in ACLs.  To include that support, the PCRE library is
required.

To build the remctl client for Windows, the Microsoft Windows SDK for
Windows Vista and the MIT Kerberos for Windows SDK are required, along
with a Microsoft Windows build environment (probably Visual Studio).
remctl has only been tested with the 3.2.1 MIT Kerberos for Windows SDK.
To run the resulting binary, MIT Kerberos for Windows must be installed
and configured.  The client was tested on Windows XP and Vista and should
work on Windows 2000 and up; however, the primary maintainer does not use
or test Windows, so it's always possible Windows support has broken.  The
server is not supported on Windows.

To build the Perl bindings for the C client library, you will need Perl
5.8 or later.

To build the PHP bindings for the C client library, you will need PHP 5.x
or later and phpize, plus any other programs that phpize requires.  PHP
5.x support has only been tested on 5.2 and 5.3, and PHP support is now
only tested on PHP 7.x and later.

To build the Python bindings for the C client library, you will need
Python 2.3 or later (primarily tested with Python 2.7).  Python 3 is not
(yet) supported.

To build the Ruby bindings for the C client library, you will need Ruby
1.8 or later (primarily tested with 2.5 and later).

None of the language bindings have been tested on Windows.

A Java client and Java server are available in the java subdirectory, but
they are not integrated into the normal build or built by default.  There
is a basic Makefile in that directory that may require some tweaking.  It
currently requires the Sun Java JDK (1.4.2, 5, or 6) or OpenJDK 6 or
later.  A considerably better Java client implementation is available on
the `java` branch in the Git repository but has not yet been merged.
