                        Python interface to remctl

OVERVIEW

  The Python interface to remctl provides Python bindings to the libremctl
  client library plus a high-level interface that translates the libremctl
  API into something closer to idiomatic Python.

  This module provides three interfaces: a low-level interface that
  provides a minimal translation from the libremctl API; a simple
  interface in Python that performs a single call to a remctl server and
  returns the result as an object; and a full interface in Python which
  provides more control over the connection, returns individual output
  tokens, and allows multiple commands to be sent via the same connection.

REQUIREMENTS

  The module has been tested with Python 3.7 and later and may not work
  with older versions of Python, although the only known incompatibility
  are with Python 3.0 and prior versions.

SIMPLIFIED INTERFACE

  remctl.remctl(host, port, principal, command)
      Runs a command on the remote system and returns an object containing
      the results.

      Arguments:
      * host (required): str, the host to connect to
      * port (optional): int, the port to connect to
      * principal (optional): str, authentication identity of host
      * command (required): iterable of str or bytes, the command

      If port is not given, the library default is used (try 4373 first
      and fall back to attempting the legacy 4444 port).  If principal is
      not given, the library default (host/<host> with the realm
      determined by the domain-realm mapping) is used.  To use the
      defaults, only the host and command may be specified using named
      arguments, or None can be passed as the port and principal
      arguments.

      command should be an iterable or str or bytes.  Any str elements
      will be encoded in UTF-8 to convert them to bytes.  (Currently,
      anything that can be converted to str is also supported, but this
      support will be dropped in a future version.)

      Returns an object of type RemctlSimpleResult with the following
      attributes:
      * stdout: bytes, the standard output from the command
      * stderr: bytes, the standard error from the command
      * status: int, the exit status of the command

      Exceptions:
      * ValueError, TypeError: an invalid argument was supplied
      * RemctlProtocolError: an error occurred in the remctl communication

      The string value of the RemctlProtocolError exception contains the
      string returned by the remctl library.  This may be an internal
      error (such as a network error) or an error returned by the remote
      server (such as an unknown command error).

  Here is an example using the simplified interface:

      from __future__ import print_function
      import remctl
      import sys

      command = ("test", "test")
      try:
          result = remctl.remctl(host="foo.example.com", command=command)
      except remctl.RemctlProtocolError as e:
          print("Error:", str(e))
          sys.exit(1)
      if result.stdout:
          print("stdout:", result.stdout)
      if result.stderr:
          print("stderr:", result.stderr)
      print("exit status:", result.status)

FULL INTERFACE

  The full remctl interface requires the user to do more bookkeeping, but
  provides more flexibility and visibility into what is happening at a
  protocol level.  It allows issuing multiple commands on the same
  persistant connection (provided that the remote server supports protocol
  version two; if it doesn't, the library will transparently fall back to
  opening a connection for each command).

  To use the full interface, first create a connection object with
  remctl.Remctl() (either passing it the connection arguments or then
  calling its open() method), and then call the command() method to issue
  a command.  Read output tokens with output() until a status token has
  been received.  Then the command is complete and another command can be
  issued.

  remctl.Remctl(host, port, principal)
      The constructor.  Create a new Remctl object.  The arguments are
      optional; if given, the constructor immediately calls open() and
      passes those arguments to it.  See below for their meaning and
      possible exceptions.

  All further methods below must be called on a Remctl object as returned
  by the constructor.

  Remctl.set_ccache(ccache)
      Sets the credential cache for outgoing connections to ccache.

      Arguments:
      * ccache (required): str, the credential cache to use

      This is normally the full path to a Kerberos ticket cache, but may
      have other valid forms depending on the underlying Kerberos
      implementation in use by GSS-API.  This method will affect all
      subsequent open() calls on the same object, but will have no effect
      on connections that are already open.

      If the remctl client library was built against a Kerberos library
      and the GSS-API library supported gss_krb5_import_cred, this call
      affects only this Remctl object.  Otherwise, this will affect not
      only all subsequent open() calls for the same object, but all
      subsequent remctl connections of any kind from the same process, and
      even other GSS-API connections from the same process unrelated to
      remctl.

      Not all GSS-API implementations support setting the credential
      cache.  If this operation is not supported, a RemctlError exception
      will be thrown.

      Exceptions:
      * RemctlError: setting the credential cache isn't supported

  Remctl.set_source_ip(source)
      Sets the source IP for future outgoing connections.  This will
      affect all subsequent open() calls on the same object, but will have
      no effect on connections that are already open.

      Arguments:
      * source (required): str, the source IP address

      The source may be either an IPv4 or an IPv6 address (if IPv6 is
      supported).  It must be an IP address, not a host name.

      Exceptions:
      * RemctlError: a memory allocation failure occurred

  Remctl.set_timeout(timeout)
      Sets the timeout for connections and commands.  All subsequent
      operations on this object will be subject to this timeout, including
      open() if called prior to calling open().  If the timeout is 0, this
      clears any timeout that was previously set.

      The timeout is a timeout on network activity from the server, not on
      a complete operation.  So, for example, a timeout of ten seconds
      just requires that the server send some data every ten seconds.  If
      the server sends only tiny amounts of data at a time, the complete
      operation could take much longer than ten seconds without triggering
      the timeout.

      Arguments:
      * timeout (required): int, the timeout in seconds or 0

      Exceptions:
      * RemctlError: the timeout was negative

  Remctl.open(host, port, principal)
      Open a connection to a remote server and authenticate.  There is no
      return value; an exception is thrown on any error.

      Arguments:
      * host (required): str, the host to connect to
      * port (optional): int, the port to connect to
      * principal (optional): str, authentication identity of host
      
      If port is not given, the library default is used (try 4373 first
      and fall back to attempting the legacy 4444 port).  If principal is
      not given, the library default (host/<host> with the realm
      determined by the domain-realm mapping) is used.      
      
      Exceptions:
      * ValueError, TypeError: an invalid argument was supplied
      * RemctlError: a network or authentication error occurred
      
      The string value of the RemctlError exception contains the string
      returned by the remctl library, similar to what would be returned by
      the error() method.

  Remctl.command(command)
      Send a command to the remote host.  There is no return value; an
      exception is thrown on any error.

      The Remctl object must already be connected.  The command may, under
      the remctl protocol, contain any character, but be aware that most
      remctl servers will reject commands or arguments containing ASCII 0
      (NUL).  This currently therefore cannot be used for upload of
      arbitrary unencoded binary data.

      Arguments:
      * command (required): iterable of str or bytes, the command

      command should be an iterable or str or bytes.  Any str elements
      will be encoded in UTF-8 to convert them to bytes.  (Currently,
      anything that can be converted to str is also supported, but this
      support will be dropped in a future version.)

      Exceptions:
      * ValueError, TypeError: an invalid argument was supplied
      * RemctlError: a network or authentication error occurred
      * RemctlNotOpenedError: no connection currently open

      The string value of the RemctlError exception contains the string
      returned by the remctl library, the same as would be returned by the
      error() method.

  Remctl.output()
      Reads an output token from the server and returns it as a tuple.  A
      command will result in either one error token or zero or more output
      tokens followed by a status token.  The output is complete as soon
      as any token other than an output token has been received, but the
      module will keep returning done tokens to the caller for as long as
      output() is called without another call to command().

      The members of the returned tuple are:
      * type: str, "output", "status", "error", or "done"
      * output: bytes, the returned output or error
      * stream: int, 1 for stdout or 2 for stderr for an output token
      * status: int, exit status of command for a status token
      * error: int, remctl protocol error for an error token

      type will always be present.  The other members of the tuple may be
      None depending on the type of token.  Output tokens will have
      output and stream information, error tokens will have output and
      error information, and status tokens will have status information.
      done tokens will return None for all other elements.

      For error tokens, error holds the numeric error code (see the remctl
      protocol specification), which is the recommended value for programs
      to check when looking for specific errors.  output will contain an
      English text translation of the error code and the exact text may
      change.

      If the server does not return an output token, output() will throw
      an exception.

      Exceptions:
      * RemctlError: a network or authentication error occurred
      * RemctlNotOpenedError: no connection currently open

  Remctl.noop()
      Send a NOOP message to the server and read the reply.  This is
      primarily used to keep a connection to a remctl server alive, such
      as through a firewall with a session timeout, while waiting to issue
      further commands.  Returns true on success, false on failure.

      The NOOP message requires protocol version 3 support in the server,
      so the caller should be prepared for this function to fail,
      indicating that the connection could not be kept alive and possibly
      that it was closed by the server.  In this case, the client will
      need to explicitly reopen the connection with open().

      Exceptions:
      * RemctlError: a network or authentication error occurred
      * RemctlNotOpenedError: no connection currently open

  Remctl.close()
      Close a connection.  After calling this method, open() must be
      called for this object before sending any further commands.  The
      connection will also be automatically closed when the object is
      destroyed, so calling this method is often not necessary.

  Remctl.error()
      Returns the error from the last failed Remctl method.  This will be
      the same string as was returned as the string value of a RemctlError
      or RemctlProtocolError exception.

LOW-LEVEL INTERFACE

  This module also provides a _remctl module, which exports a low-level
  interface with essentially the same API as the C API.  It is very
  similar to the simplified and full interface above except that the
  simplified call returns its results as a tuple, status codes are
  returned from functions instead of throwing exceptions (exceptions are
  only thrown for things like out-of-memory errors), argument checking
  won't be as nice and in some cases relies on the underlying libremctl C
  library to do the error checking, and command arguments have to be lists
  and not arbitrary sequences or iterators.

  The _remctl interface is not currently documented or intended for direct
  use.  Use at your own risk.

HISTORY

  The original implementation was written by Thomas L. Kula
  <kula@tproa.net> and was known as pyremctl.  As of remctl 2.13 it is
  part of the stock remctl distribution and ongoing maintenance is done by
  Russ Allbery and Thomas L. Kula.

THANKS

  Andrew Mortensen for general code formatting comments and a reminder to
  free malloc'd memory.

LICENSE

  Copyright 2008 Thomas L. Kula <kula@tproa.net>
  Copyright 2008-2009, 2011-2012
      The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University
  Copyright 2014, 2019, 2025 Russ Allbery <eagle@eyrie.org>

  Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
  are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
  notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
  without any warranty.

  SPDX-License-Identifier: FSFAP
